#Description

Source:

Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz(1,2), Davide Anguita(1), Alessandro Ghio(1), Luca Oneto(1) and Xavier Parra(2)
1 - Smartlab - Non-Linear Complex Systems Laboratory
DITEN - Università degli Studi di Genova, Genoa (I-16145), Italy. 
2 - CETpD - Technical Research Centre for Dependency Care and Autonomous Living
Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (BarcelonaTech). Vilanova i la Geltrú (08800), Spain
activityrecognition '@' smartlab.ws

Data Set Information:

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually. The obtained dataset has been randomly partitioned into two sets, where 70% of the volunteers was selected for generating the training data and 30% the test data. 

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used. From each window, a vector of features was obtained by calculating variables from the time and frequency domain.

Attribute Information:

For each record in the dataset it is provided: 
- Triaxial acceleration from the accelerometer (total acceleration) and the estimated body acceleration. 
- Triaxial Angular velocity from the gyroscope. 
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables. 
- Its activity label. 
- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.

#Codebook
The script run_analysis.R performs the 5 steps described in the course project's definition.

Step 1: Merge the training and the test sets to create one data set
After setting the source directory for the files, read into tables the data located in

features.txt
activity_labels.txt
subject_train.txt
x_train.txt
y_train.txt
subject_test.txt
x_test.txt
y_test.txt
Assign column names and merge to create one data set.

All the training as well as test data is merged using the rbind() function. 

Step 2: Extract only the measurements on the mean and standard deviation for each measurement.
Using the grep function, only those columns with the mean and standard deviation measures were selected from the merged dataset. 

Step 3: Use descriptive activity names to name the activities in the data set
After extracting these columns, they were given the approapriate names, taken from features.txt.

Step 4: Appropriately label the data set with descriptive activity names.
The descriptive activity names were used to name the activities in the data set.
The gsub function was used for pattern replacement to clean up the data labels.

Step 5: Create a second, independent tidy data set with the average of each variable for each activity and each subject.
Finally, a new dataset tidyData.txt with all the average measures for each subject and activity type was generated using 
the write.table function.
